---
layout: singleblog
category: blog
title: Making A Successful Museum Soundwalk
description: Months in the making.
tag: concert
author: John Chittum
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
img: intro-bg.jpg
img_alt: Temporality has Turned on this mixer
---

On February 18th, KcEMA and the Spencer Museum of Art collaborated on a soundwalk style experience. Five groups, five set-ups, lining up with the five different themes. You can read more about the Spencer Museum's wonder exhibit, Temporal Turn, [on their website](https://www.spencerart.ku.edu/exhibitions/temporal-turn-art-and-speculation-contemporary-asia).

Like many projects, this started with an idea over coffee. Amy Duke contacted our Vice President, Christina Butera, about wanting to work with KcEMA. Amy is a fan of electronic music, and had heard of group before. Excellent! We rely a lot on word of mouth. KcEMA's work over the years has placed us in folks' thoughts when thinking about electronic music in town. We're not the only people in town producing concerts of electronic music, but we are the only non-profit focused on bringing new and experimental works to Kansas City. Step 1: Get your name out there.

Christina was off in Paris studying at IRCAM (!!!), so she sent Amy's email to me. I met Amy at the KC Public Library, and we let ideas fly. There were a couple opportunities at the museum: a for-hire gig providing music for their opening reception; and a chance at working with them further. Being an entreprising group, I pitched KcEMA do both events, the reception in the fall, and an event near the end of the exhibit. Step 2: Be prepared to take any opportunity.

Negotiating the specifics of the reception was relatively easy. I focused on ways we could still be artistic through creative use of space. The Spencer Museum is on two levels with a balcony. Amy thought the balcony might make a good space. I suggested having multiple set-ups: one on the ground floor, one separate part of the gallery, and one in the balcony. The goal wasn't to create a soundwalk at the reception, but instead to have entertainment in different areas, enticing attendees to move throughout the gallery. I thought to reach out to [Mnemosyne Quartet](http://www.mnemosynequartet.com/) and David McIntire of [Ensemble of Irreproduceable Outcomes](https://www.facebook.com/EIOmusic/) fame (and [Irritable Hedgehog](http://irritablehedgehog.com/about.html)). KcEMA also planned to provide fixed media works through the night, in-between sets and in our own corner of the space. Step 3: Take gigs that will set you up for the next gig.

Amy and I moved on to discussing the spring show. I gave a few ideas, ranging from straight forward to highly ambitious. On the easier side, KcEMA could do a standard concert in Spencer's theater of works inspired by Temporal Turn. These could be new works or existing works that fit the theme. On the highly ambitious side was a call for collaborative proposals. Composers would offer a proposal based on one of the five themes ("Pulse", "The Edge of Infinity", "Mythopoeia", "Human/Posthuman/Inhuman", and "Anthropocene"), and the artists engaged in site-specific work would help choose who they'd like to work with. The performances would occur in front of the new site-specific works, and we'd lead attendees on a soundwalk style concert through the museum. Step 4: Give your client or collaborator options, and work with them through the entire process.

This all occurred in an hour and a half meeting in July. We nailed down working the opening reception, and had an idea for the spring. Oh, how plans can change. [Step 5: Be agile!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development)

KcEMA took a trip out to the Spencer museum in September to check out the space. As we walked around, and got a lay of the space, we decided it might be better to limit to two groups, Mnemosyne and EIO. KcEMA could set-up a playlist as pre-show, between set, and post-show music. I could tell immediately the space was going to be incredibly live. The new design has an open main area with balconies. It's absolutely gorgeous, and can easily become loud and boomy. We settled on one set-up behind a wonderful large screen by [Konoiko Tomoko](https://spencerart.ku.edu/artist-residence/konoike-tomoko) and on the balcony. David would "hide" behind the screen, waiting till more people entered the gallery, and then begin his performance. After a 15 minute pause, Mnemosyne would begin performing from the balconies. 

The performance went off without a hitch. Everyone at the Spencer loved it. The only difficult came on our end. The Spencer Museum paid in a timely fashion, but the check arrived just as I was walking out the door to head home for the holidays. When I got back, I wrote our treasurer, who had similarly just left town for the holidays. Our slighlty poor management and siloed duties cause us to be slow in sending money off to parties. That's a definite oversight on our part, and something we will work on. One big that came out of this? Step 6: Everyone gets a contract where all expectations are laid out. 

Yeah, that's a big one. KcEMA can, and will, definitely do better.

This set the stage wonderfully for KcEMA's show in the spring. However, those deeper readers may have noticed my tell about timing. That's right, we were running quickly out of time. What followed from mid-November through December were flurries of emails back and forth between Spencer and KcEMA working out details. Obviously collaborating with the artists was out. They had long since moved on to their next projects, and were no longer local. Being local isn't a requirement for collaboration, but it is helpful (take it from the person working from home on world-wide distributed team). However, everyone was stil excited about the idea of a soundwalk style concert. 

A date was set for February 18th. KcEMA's board got together, and we made some tough decisions. We really wanted to do a call for scores on this project, but the deadline kept shrinking and shrinking. As it got into December, we made the decision to curate the concert instead. Our goal is to present the best concerts possible, while giving electronic artists the opportunities and infrastructure to succeed. As time ticked away, we felt, as artists, it'd be difficult to do a proposal and then craft a piece. Turn around would be short on proposals, with the call going out the beginning of December, decisions by the beginning of the year, and then a show in mid-February. To ensure we would have the best concert we could, the board decided to curate the call. Go back up to Step 5: Be agile! 

KcEMA has a divided structure. This allows for us to separate concerns, as well as prevent conflicts of interest. Members of the executive board are on the artistic committee, however it is comprised mainly of other artists in the Kansas City area. The Vice President is chair and advisor, with the President acting in an advisory position. The artistic committee met in the esteemed establishment of P.Ott's, and started brainstorming people to approach. We knew we wanted to include at least one artist from Lawrence, and as luck would have it, we had just met one. From there we programmed mainly upon variety of musical styles, possible fits with themes, and artists in the area we knew could deliver in the short time span. 

The chosen musicians were Hong Hong Hui, [Frank Nawrot](https://soundcloud.com/franknawrot), Mt. Asther(A collaboration between Stacy Busch and Cody Kauhl), and David/Harte ([Seth Davis](https://soundcloud.com/user-507056231) and [Tim J. Harte](https://soundcloud.com/dun6304m4573r)). Our final spot was left open as we discussed possible options. We reached out to various artists, but with January beginning, we had yet to secure a final person. It was decided then that a new collaborative group would emerge, Trio Defecta ([Christina Butera](http://www.christinafrancescabutera.com/, Jeff Borowiec, and I). Did I mention *Be agile*?

Curation is difficult business, and is worth it's own blog post. Some may look at this and see many KcEMA board members. It's important to again note that the Artistic Committee is made up of independent musicians. We trusted their judgement, with the only decision made later being the inclusion of Trio Defecta as we were still short a participant. This brings up another major point: Step 6: Give yourself more time than you'll need for a concert.

Time becomes a precious resource, something that can all too easily disappear. The holidays ate almost a month our time, as collborators from all areas took time to be with their families and recover from a hectic fall. KcEMA had done a few events, sometimes for hire (such as the earlier mentioned event at the Spencer), and others as support ([No Divide KC's](https://www.facebook.com/nodividekc/) first production). The Spencer staff were all recovering from the whirlwind of re-opening after being closed for renovation, and presenting an ambitious exhibit in Temporal Turn. 

Everyone involved took time on a Saturday in January to head out to the Spencer for a guided tour. The curator, Kris Imants Ercums, was gracious enough to lead the tour and give us lots of information. If you haven't made it out to the Spencer Museum for this wonderful exhibit, do so. It's fantastic. The tour was great, and gave many people ideas. Each artist could spend a day talking about their works, but I'll summarize to Step 7: Work closely with your collaborators. Use their expertise to influence your steps. 

This also gave us a good chance to walk the space again and decide upon show order and space. We decided to make the set-ups as small and localized as possible. Instead of brining in large speakers, we opted to use studio monitors for the majority of set-ups. Frank Nawrot's work has a political bent, and fit well with the Anthropocene. How humans interact, and change the world is a main theme in politics at the moment. We decided to start outside at a large site-specific sculpture. We faced the speakers toward the building, allowing the audience to walk outside after the brief introduction and be comfortable in the space. There were also acoustic reasons, as it limited reflection time (as compared to pointing at the building across the street, where the slapback would be longer), and allowed us to limit the volume a bit more (shutting off one plane, and having a semi-reflective surface can be handy). We used a pair of Mackie SRMv1 speakers(Yes, the old ones). From there we headed inside to Mt. Asther performing around a 24 hour clock with many sayings reflecting on time. Above was a video constructed from images of space. This fit their theme of "The Edge of Infinity" wonderfully. Cody and Stacy's mix of beat driven music, vocals, and synths work wonderfully. We moved into studio monitors, using a pair of NHT Pro M00s with the matching S00 sub. These are a little older, lesser known speakers, but pack a whollop for the size, and sound fantastic in many situations. Afterwards we moved to Hong Hong Hui's haunting work for Pipa and fixed media. The work was done off between Tomoko's wonderful screen and a sculpture of three mythical beasts. It fit the theme of "Mythopoeia." For technical reasons, I opted to use my pair of Samson Rubicon 6as for this piece. They offered a much more full-range sound on their own compared to just the M00 monitors, and allowed me to shift the sub. We moved from there to Trio Defecta's new work for Kate Sikora. The computer takes control in our interpretation of "Human/Posthuman/Inhuman", as it tries to learn the Stalinist lullaby sung. By the end, the computer decides one voice isn't nearly enough, and begins moving into territories no human could. This was done by one of my favourite pieces, affectionately referred to as "Disco Wolf" (you'll know it when you see it). Davis/Harte finished the evening with a new scoring of "Uterus Man." Their distinct flavour of noise and improvisation created a "Pulse" driven new score. See what I did there? 

It was all hands on deck for KcEMA, with everyone working set-up and tear down. The sound was impeccable at all stations, the walk itself was leisurely, as we didn't try to hurry any one from space to space. Some folks joined as the concert was going, presumably just coming to the museum only to be met by this experience. In one of the more rare things with electronic music (especially live electronic music), every performance went smoothly. The show was deemed a great success by everyone involved. We also did a much better job clearly communicating to everyone involved how much would be made in the performance, and how we'd be getting them payments. Many participants generously decided to donate their proceeds back to KcEMA. This leads to the final, most important step--Step 7: Always have the highest quality product(ion) possible. Without that, no planning, marketing, or agility will matter.

What did we learn? To recap:

1. Get your name out there
2. Be prepared for any opportunity.
3. Take gigs that set-up your next gig.
4. Work with your collaborators. Keep them involved, and included in decisions. 
5. *BE AGILE.* (really)
6. Have clear expectations, and when needed contracts, with everyone involved.
7. Make it the highest quality possible.

Going forward, KcEMA will be doing more posts like this, reflecting on our experiences, discussing what it takes to make everything happen. Look out for future posts discussing calls for scores, planning ambitious projects, and more. If you have any questions or comments, don't hesitate to reach out to us on Twitter or Facebook!

Regards,

John Chittum
KcEMA President