---
layout: singleblog
category: blog
title: Finish with a (load)Bang! Call for Proposals
description: 
tag: first
author: John Chittum
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
img: presskit_jpg.jpg
img_alt: loadbang ensemble
---
## 2020 “Finish with a bang” Collaboration Call

Kansas City Electronic Music and Arts Alliance and the University of Missouri Kansas City are proud to present a collaboration opportunity with New York City-based new music chamber group loadbang! Chosen composers will get a chance to write a piece for loadbang, and receive, minimally, a premiere performance in Kansas City, and a professionally done live recording of the performance. Composers will also have an opportunity to work with the group in Kansas City before the show, collaborate across the miles, and attend any other events related to the show.

### Call specifics

* Call Due Date: OCTOBER 18th, 2019
* Fee: NONE!
* Notification of winners: November 1st, 2019
* Due Date for Composition: March 1st, 2020
* Concert Date: May 7th, 2020
* Rehearsal Date: May 6th 2020
* Composers must be in the greater Kansas City area (roughly North to St. Joseph, MO and south to Ottawa,KS/Louisburg, KS, West to Lawrence, KS and East to Warrensburg, MO). Exceptions for residents of Missouri may be made, if the composer can be available for rehearsal and performance, and aren’t too far from the ~1 hour drive time in either direction. Please, no International, or non-Missouri or Kansas based composers.
* Contact and submission : kcema.alliance@gmail.com


### Please include the following in the call
* A proposal for the work with loadbang (max 1000 words)
* Be creative! Let the group know your wildest fantasy
* Be explicit! 
* Utilize the entire group (bass clarinet, trumpet, trombone, male voice) Electronics are not required but preference will be given to works that include electronics. If you’re not sure what to write, please contact us! We’ll send along a sample and offer any help we can!
* 2 works for chamber group (2-7 players) composed since 2014. May or may not include electronics Optional and helpful if works contains the full or subset instrumentation of loadbang (bass clarinet, trumpet, trombone, male voice). 
* Scores in pdf format
* recordings of each work. Please avoid synthesized realizations if at all possible. Even rough live recordings are better for the judges
* Short bio (500 words or less)
* CV, if you have one
* Links to your website, social media, or media hosting (soundcloud, etc)
* Press kit, if you have one
* Affiliation information. Include school or professional affiliations. Include rights organization for your music

### Some final notes to help us out

* Please make sure everything is labeled with your name! This is not an anonymous call, and it’ll help us make sure everything is together in one place
* Links are awesome! Host all your material in your cloud service of choice (Google Drive, Microsoft OneDrive, Dropbox, whatever!), give us a link, and we’re good to go!
* Links to recordings hosted on external services are great as well! Just make sure we can get to everything easily!
* KcEMA is a volunteer only org, so anything that can help us out is greatly appreciated!

### Judging process

loadbang will be choosing 1-2 proposals. At least one proposal will be chosen. KcEMA is acting as a facilitator and organizer only. KcEMA guarantees receipt of material and passing everything to loadbang for judging. KcEMA may not have the capabilities to follow up on incomplete applications (depending on time), so please double check everything has been included. 

KcEMA and UMKC do not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion (creed), gender, gender expression, age, national origin (ancestry), disability, marital status, sexual orientation, or military status, in any of its activities or operations. Furthermore, KcEMA is dedicated to providing opportunities to underserved and underrepresented groups in contemporary electronic music. We strive for an open, caring, and supportive environment for all artists, with particular attention given to underrepresented groups. KcEMA will not, and has no plans, to ever charge for their opportunities as we view this as another form of discrimination (socioeconomic).
